## Examples of Existing Products
Some examples of existing products that are similar to Easy App-ly are: [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/), [Workday](https://www.workday.com/), [ZipRecruiter](https://www.ziprecruiter.com/), [Indeed](https://ca.indeed.com/).

The following products are well-known platforms that help people to find jobs or internships that are best suited for them. These platforms also enable people to form and maintain professional relationships. Recruiters can post open positions they are looking to hire for, and candidates can apply to these postings.

## How Easy App-ly is Different from Existing Products

Easy App-ly is different from the existing products as Easy App-ly contains unique features that some of the existing platforms currently do not support.

A key feature is the **elevator pitch** feature. Easy App-ly will allow applicants to record a 90-second video where applicants are able to promote themselves to the recruiters. In the current market, most recruiters must review more than 50 resumes and select a few to interview. Only at the interview stage do the recruiters have a chance to connect with the candidates. The elevator pitch provides the recruiters with insight into the candidates' personalities which cannot be seen through their resumes. This feature will save time for recruiters as it will assist the recruiters in reducing the number of candidates selected to move to the interview stage. Moreover, the elevator pitch allows applicants to promote themselves further and displays their soft skills, which aids in increasing their chances of receiving an interview. 

Another key feature is a **web extension** that pre-populates fields on online job application forms for third-party websites. On average, applicants can take up to anywhere from 30 mins to 1 hour to apply for a single job posting. This is due to many companies requiring applicants to apply on both the third-party sites used to promote the job and their company website. This process is time-consuming for applicants, which leads to applicants applying for fewer jobs. A possible reason most well-known existing products do not support this feature is that it could be a conflict of interest. Implementing this feature on their platform encourages recruiters to solely depend on users applying on the company's websites as opposed to using the existing product's service. These existing products want to promote their own service and so that users will use their platform as a "one-stop-shop" where candidates can apply for jobs, and recruiters will review all applications directly on the platform. There are existing standalone web extensions product such as [LiveCareer Apply: Job Application Autofill](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/livecareer-apply-job-appl/njpijaeacchjhfpknnfcmckiedggdjkb). However, _LiverCareer Apply_ requires users to pay for this service, making the extension not accessible to all users. Easy App-ly's web extension will be free to use for all users.

To add on, Easy App-ly will have an integrated **online interview service**. Recruiters will be able to schedule online interviews on Easy App-ly. As well, there will be a dashboard that displays upcoming interviews to ensure users are aware and prepared for upcoming interviews. Although this feature is not unique, not all of the existing products support this or have this service well integrated into their platform to ensure ease of use. 

All other features, such as connecting with other users, viewing other user's profiles, etc., are currently supported by some of the well-known existing products. These basic features will be implemented to ensure that applicants and recruiters have all the required toolset to support and streamline the hiring process. Easy App-ly aims to be a "one-stop-shop" platform to minimize users from feeling overwhelmed from having to rely on other tools.
